Well it's negative one degree here this morning.
And I figured it's a good time to stay inside and record a video.
So I hope it's warmer wherever you are.
But let's start working on the texture painting for our game character.
What I'd like to do is paint on the low poly character.
I think it'll just be easier in terms of the speed at which my computer can handle things.
I think if I were to try and paint this high poly character at eleven point five million tries it just
wouldn't work out well.
And also trying to U-V map this is going to be a pain.
And we've already got our U-V map ready for us here with the low poly character.
So going to work on texture painting this version of the model however that brings up some interesting
issues like the sculpted pieces on the arm band here.
You can see them plainly here in the high poly sculped But if you go over to the low poly you don't
see them.
So how am I going to know where to paint if I want those pieces to be a different color than the rest
of the of the glove here.
What we'll do is we'll use the normal map and the ambient occlusion map to give us a sense of where
those details are while we're texture painting.
But we've got some work to do to get to that point.
So let's get started.
First of all what I'm going to do is change from the cycle's render engine to the Blendr internal.
The reason why I'm doing this is because I still feel that the texture painting tools in the blender
internal are still more intuitive.
Maybe it's just because I've used them longer I don't know but I still feel there are more features
and it's just a little more intuitive.
So I'm going to go with the blender internal here.
The next thing I need to do is open up the properties panel with the end key and I'm going to scroll
down here and go to the shading area right here and change from multi textural to Geo SL and they'll
allow me to see what's going on in the viewport a lot better as I text your pain.
But in doing that I need to create a light as well just to be able to see the texture painting.
So I'm going to go over to the Create tab and scroll down and I'm going to just create a Hemmy light
and I'll just drag that up a bit.
And move it over to the side and maybe move it out in front like this and I'll just hit the key and
rotate it around so it points more at the character like so and I might even while I'm here duplicate
this with shift D and just move it toward the back of the character and then rotate it.
So it's pointing at the back as well just so I can see both sides equally as well.
I'm going to press the end key to close that propertys panel and now I think I'll select the character
go over to the materials panel and if you have a material over here go ahead and delete it.
I don't have one but I'm just going to click the new button here and create a new material.
I'd like to change my viewport shading here from solid to texture.
And then I can change from object mode now to texture paint.
Now once I do that you can see over here it's telling me that I'm missing texture slot and the slots
tab is here and you usually add texture slots here but since we don't have a texture slot we can't see
the texture painting tools yet.
So what I'll do is go ahead and add a texture paint slot and we can choose any number of types here.
I'm going to choose diffuse color just because I want to begin with a base color for the character.
So I click this and let's call this base color
and let's go ahead and make the texture size 2048.
That'll give us a little more resolution than 10:24 I think.
When I break down the normal map and the ambient occlusion map I think I take those out at 10:24.
I'm not sure but if I did it will still work when we bring them in as a reference so we can take a look
at that too.
All right I'll go ahead and click OK.
And there we go.
Now we have the character with a texture slot on it.
It's black which is fine.
We're going to be painting over that.
And now you can see I've got over here in the slots tab that base color texture slot.
Now we're over here next to the materials panel is the texture panel and you can see here we have a
texture layer called diffuse color.
Now this is really the same thing as this.
I wish you would update the name but it doesn't.
But I'm going to go ahead and do it my self.
So going to call this base color.
Now one last thing I want to do in just setting up blender for texture painting is just to create a
new screen lay out.
So I'll come up here to the default screen lay out click the plus and I'll call this texture painting.
And I'm doing that because I want to create one more window here.
I want to just drag this over from that little corner tab drag it over and I'll change this window now
to use the image editor.
And we should be able to see our U-V map now.
OK we've got one more thing that we need to do here.
If I tried to paint on this now.
This over here is the settings for my brush and my strength is at Point 7 the radius here you can see
if I drag the radius up the brush gets bigger if I drag it down it gets smaller.
You can also press the F key to increase the size of the brush here and then click.
Or you can also press shift F and change the strength so make it stronger or weaker in the strength.
But what you want to do is just test the paint here.
If I set up my brush for this kind of size and just click and drag on here you can see I get a paint
stroke but the problem is I'm not getting anything in here.
Over in the U-V map.
Ultimately what we're doing here in drawing or painting on the 3-D character is we want that information
to be transferred to a U-V map so that we can take it into a game engine like unity just like we did
with the normal map and the ambient occlusion map.
So what we need is some sort of a canvas for the paint to transfer onto to just press command Z to undo
that.
So what we can do is just come down here to this pull out menu and we should see that image that comes
along or that goes along with that texture paint slot.
So I'm just going to click on that base color image and now that we have that image there if we come
back over here to the character and paint on it we should see that paint show up here on the U-V map
so you can see as we paint the character.
All we're really doing is painting directly onto that U-V canvas.
It's just kind of a trick to allow us to feel like we're painting on the character.
Now one thing about it this image is a separate file from the Blendr seen file.
Here let me do this real quick.
You can tell that by this little asterisks right down here by the image menu.
What that's telling us is that this particular image has not yet been saved or the hard drive.
So we need to save this to the hard drive.
In addition to saving our scene to do that we can come down here to image and the first time we save
it we need to choose Save As image and we can just keep that base color name and that's fine and save
image.
Now you can see the Asterix is gone and if paint on the character and change it somehow.
Now you can see the Asterix is back.
If I click on the image.
Now we have this save image menu item which is alt S. so I can just press alt s and it will save the
image but that's different than pressing control or command s to save the scene.
So when you are texture painting you need to be sure and press both controller command s and Altez to
be sure and save the scene and the image.
All right.
Let me hit command Z to undo that.
So now we have our blender interface set up to begin texture painting.
We've got our image canvas set up over here in the U-V Ed..
So in the next video we'll use the face selection mask to begin laying down the base colors of our character.